.TH SWISSWATCH 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
swisswatch \- the mother of all X Toolkit clocks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B swisswatch
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Swisswatch
is an analog clock for X that is highly customizable by means of
resources.
.SH SYNOPSIS
Handles minute-hand display correctly when ticking more often than once
a minute.

Handles arbitrary number of hands and/or mark specifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIforeground color\fB
choose a different color for the hands and marks.
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIbackground color\fB
choose a different color for the background.
.TP 8
.B \-tick \fItime\fB
the interval between updates of the display.  This should be a
positive floating-point number.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fB
define the initial window geometry; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fB
specify the display to use; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-noshape
causes the clock to not reshape itself and ancestors to exactly
fit the outline of the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-railroad
.TP 8
.B \-sbb
.TP 8
.B \-cff
.TP 8
.B \-ffs
causes the second and minute hands to behave differently at the turn
of the minute.  This mode tries to mimick the Look and Feel of the
swiss federal railway clocks.
.SH RESOURCES
.TP 8
.B .tickTime / .TickTime
Time between ticks, in seconds.  The hands will move this often.  (All
hands have their positions recomputed and redrawn each time the clock
ticks.)  This is a floating-point value, though values less than the
system's clock resolution will not work very well. Ticks occur
precisely on the appropriate boundary, regardless of when the program
was started; for example, if tickTime is 5, ticks occur precisely when
gettimeofday().tv_sec%5 changes.
.TP 8
.B .numMarks / .NumMarks
Number of sets of marks around the clock face.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.cycle / .Mark.Cycle / .Hand.Cycle
For a mark, the number of marks in set \fIn\fP.  For a hand, the
number of ticks corresponding to one complete turn of the hand.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.outsideEnd / .Mark.OutsideEnd
Outside end of marks in set \fIn\fP, as a radial distance.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.length / .Mark.Length
Length of marks in set \fIn\fP; the marks extend from the outsideEnd
position inward for this distance.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.phase / .Mark.Phase
Phase of mark set \fIn\fP.  This specifies a rotation of the whole set of
marks.  The default is 0, which specifies that a mark appear at the
straight-up ("12-o'clock") position, with the other number-1 marks (if
any) spaced evenly around the face.  If phase is nonzero, it specifies
a rotation of the entire set of marks clockwise.  The value is the
rotation, as a fraction of the distance from one mark to the next. For
example, any integer value will have no visible effect (any desired
effect corresponds to some value in [0..1]).  Experimentation is
recommended.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.centerX / .Mark.CenterX
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.centerY / .Mark.CenterY
These specify where on the clock face the center of the circle formed
by the marks is to be.  The X and Y coordinates are scaled so that the
bounding square of the clock face is [-1..1] x [-1..1].  This allows
for placing circles of marks centered at points other than the center
of the clock face; this is useful primarily in conjunction with the
corresponding options for hands.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.foreground / .Mark.Foreground
Color used to draw a mark or hand.
.TP 8
.B .nChildren / .NChildren
Number of hands and marks on the clock.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.class
The class of the hand or mark, currently only "Hand" and "Mark" are
supported.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.width / .Hand.Width
The width of the hand.  For triangular hands, this is the width of the
base; for rectangular hands, this is the width of the rectangle; and
for circular hands, this is the diameter of the circle.  If the width
of a triangular or rectangular outline hand is zero, the hand is drawn
as a single line instead of the full shape.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.shape / .Hand.Shape
The shape of the hand.  Hands can be triangular, rectangular, or
circular; the allowed values are "triangle", "rectangle", "circle",
"triangular", "rectangular", and "circular".  Illegal values produce a
complaint and a default is used.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.render / .Hand.Render
The rendition of the hand.  Hands can be drawn as outlines or as
filled shapes; the allowed values are "outline", "fill", "outlined",
and "filled".  Illegal values produce a complaint and a default is
used.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.strokeWidth / .Hand.StrokeWidth
The width of strokes used to draw the hand, when the hand is drawn in
a way that uses strokes.  A value of 0 uses so-called "thin" lines,
which are often faster.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.strokeWidthR / .Hand.StrokeWidthR
If a non-zero floating point number is specified, the stroke width
will always be the product of this number and the clock's outer radius
(in x direction if it is an ellipsis).
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.cap / .Hand.Cap
The line cap style used when drawing hands. This produces no visual
effect except when drawing triangular or rectangular hands of width 0.
Legal values are "notlast", "butt", "round", "projecting",
"capnotlast", "capbutt", "capround", and "capprojecting".
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.join / .Hand.Join
The line join style used when drawing hands.  Legal values are
"miter", "round", "bevel", "joinmiter", joinround", and "joinbevel".
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.cycle / .Hand.Cycle
The number of seconds it takes for the hand to circle around the face
once.  For example, a normal second hand will give 60, a normal minute
hand 3600.  If this is small compared to the tickTime value, the hand
will move by visually large amounts each tick; this may or may not be
desirable.  The value may be floating-point.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.phase / .Hand.Phase
An offset applied to the time of day before computing the hand
position.  To determine the position of a hand, the following is
computed:
.sp
.B ((now - tz - phase) % cycle) / cycle
.sp
where `now' is the current time of day (obtained with time(3)), tz is
a correction factor for the timezone as found in the tm_gmtoff field
of the structure returned by localtime(3)), phase is the value of the
phase resource for the hand, and cycle is the value of the cycle
resource for the hand.  The result is a number from 0 to 1, which is
mapped into an angular position, with 0 being straight up, .25 being
straight right, .5 being straight down, etc.
.sp
The simplest way to determine the desired phase value
for a hand is to experiment.  It is usually obvious that the value
should be a multiple of something like 3600; try various multiples
until you get the desired hand position.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.color / .Hand.Foreground
The color used for drawing the hand.  Hands are drawn opaquely in
increasing numerical order.
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.center.x / .Hand.Center.X
.TP 8
.B .child_\fIn\fP.center.y / .Hand.Center.Y
These specify where on the clock face the pivot point of the hand is
to be.  The X and Y coordinates are scaled so that the bounding square
of the clock face is 1..1] x [-1..1].  This allows hands to rotate
about points other than the center of the clock face, as with some
watches.
.TP 8
.B .geometry / .Geometry
Geometry specification, when none is given on the command line.  If no
geometry spec can be found anywhere, the equivalent of 200x200+100+100
is used.
.TP 8
.B .background / .Background
Color used as a background for all drawing.
.TP 8
.B .name / .Name
A string, which is stored as the window manager name for the window.
If none is given, "xwatch" is used.
.TP 8
.B .iconName / .IconName
A string, which is stored as the window manager icon name for the
window.  If none is given, "xwatch" is used.
.TP 8
.B .railroad / .Railroad
Enables or disables Swiss-railway-clock mode, as described under the
-railroad command-line option. The value can be "true", "false",
"yes", or "no".
.TP 8
.B .circular / .Circular
If set, the clock will remain circular even if one tries to resize it
to a non-circular ellipse.  This is the previous behavior.  The
possible values are the same as for \fB.swiss/.Swiss\fP.
.SH EXAMPLE RESOURCES
The distributed application defaults files define three different
looks for swisswatch.  Try them out by calling it as
.sp 1
swisswatch
.sp 1
swisswatch -name swissclock
.sp 1
swisswatch -name oclock
.sp 1
.SH COLORS
If you would like your clock to be viewable in color, include the following 
in the #ifdef COLOR section you read with xrdb:
.sp 1
*customization:                 -color
.sp 1
.br
This will cause swisswatch to pick up the colors in the app-defaults color
customization file:
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/SwissWatch-color.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), X Toolkit documentation
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Simon Leinen, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne
.SH CREDITS
Der Mouse <mouse@larry.McRCIM.McGill.EDU> wrote the mclock program
that already featured most of the functionality: smooth movement of
the minute hand and excessive configurability.  I basically
reimplemented mclock as a Toolkit application.  This manpage also
contains slightly adapted text from mclock.doc.
